Preheat oven to 350°F (177°C). Grease two 9-inch cake pans, line with parchment paper, then grease the parchment paper.
Make the cake: Whisk the flour, baking soda, cocoa powder, and salt together in a large bowl. Set aside.
Using a handheld or stand mixer, beat the butter and sugar together on medium-high speed until combined, about 1 minute.Add the oil, egg yolks, vanilla extract, and vinegar and beat on high for 2 minutes.
With the mixer on low speed, add the dry ingredients in 2-3 additions alternating with the buttermilk. Beat in your desired amount of food coloring just until combined. Vigorously whisk or beat the 4 egg whites on high speed until fluffy peaks form as pictured above, about 3 minutes. Gently fold into cake batter. The batter will be silky and slightly thick.
Divide batter between cake pans. Bake for 30-32 minutes or until the tops of the cakes spring back when gently touched and a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean.  Remove cakes from the oven and cool completely in the pans set on a wire rack. The cakes must be completely cool before frosting and assembling.
Assemble and frost: Using a large serrated knife, slice a thin layer off the tops of the cakes to create a flat surface. Discard or crumble over finished cake. Place 1 cake layer on your cake stand or serving plate. Evenly cover the top with frosting. Top with 2nd layer and spread remaining frosting all over the top and sides. 
Refrigerate cake for at least 30-60 minutes before slicing. This helps the cake hold its shape when cutting.
Thaw overnight in the refrigerator and bring to room temperature before decorating/serving.
